directory_traversal/README.md, before:

# Nginx alias traversal demo

![un license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/RyosukeDTomita/security-assessment-handson)

## INDEX

- [ABOUT](#about)
- [ENVIRONMENT](#environment)
- [PREPARING](#preparing)
- [HOW TO USE](#how-to-use)
- [REFERENCE](#reference)

---

## ABOUT

Nginx alias traversal.

> [!NOTE]
> In the pattern where this location is used in combination with alias, a critical vulnerability arises when two conditions are met:
> 1. no trailing slash at the end of the URL specified in the location
> 2. a trailing slash at the end of the path specified in the alias

```
# correct nginx.conf settings
location /good/ {
  alias /var/img/;
}
```

```
# vulnerble nginx.conf settings

location /bad {
  alias /var/img/;
}
```

---

## ENVIRONMENT

nginx 1.25.5

[see Dockerfile](./Dockerfile)

---

## PREPARING

```shell
cd directory_traversal/
docker compose up
```

---

## HOW TO USE

After the Docker container run, go to [localhost](http://localhost:81).

---

## REFERENCE

- [Hunting for Nginx Alias Traversals in the woid](https://labs.hakaioffsec.com/nginx-alias-traversal/)
- [Gigazine](https://gigazine.net/news/20230708-nginx-alias-traversal/)

Commit message:

chore: update readme about nginx alias traversal

directory_traversal/README.md, after:

# Nginx alias traversal demo

![un license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/RyosukeDTomita/security-assessment-handson)

## INDEX

- [ABOUT](#about)
- [ENVIRONMENT](#environment)
- [PREPARING](#preparing)
- [HOW TO USE](#how-to-use)
- [REFERENCE](#reference)

---

## ABOUT

Nginx alias traversal.

> [!NOTE]
> In the pattern where this location is used in combination with alias, a critical vulnerability arises when two conditions are met:
> 1. no trailing slash at the end of the URL specified in the location
> 2. a trailing slash at the end of the path specified in the alias

```
# correct nginx.conf settings
location /good/ {
  alias /var/img/;
}
```

```
# vulnerble nginx.conf settings

location /bad {
  alias /var/img/;
}
```

---

## ENVIRONMENT

nginx 1.25.5

[see Dockerfile](./Dockerfile)

---

## PREPARING

```shell
cd directory_traversal/
docker compose up
```

---

## HOW TO USE

After the Docker container run, go to [localhost:82](http://localhost:82).
![start](./assets/start.png)

1. http://localhost/good/cat.png is correct nginx.conf settings. You can see the image file.
![good-settings](./assets/good-settings.png)
2. http://localhost:82/bad../log/nginx/access.log_sample is vulnerable. You can get access.log_sample
![success](./assets/success.png)


---

## REFERENCE

- [Hunting for Nginx Alias Traversals in the woid](https://labs.hakaioffsec.com/nginx-alias-traversal/)
- [Gigazine](https://gigazine.net/news/20230708-nginx-alias-traversal/)
